welcome everyone to this week's IPL the
swing meeting is through 9:30 in 2020
and as a relief we go over the stuff
that we've done in the past week and
then discuss any anonymous we might have
today I've and everyone I don't we talk
about oh there's another I got to talk
about that's great and yeah and then
we'll see so um yeah I quickly start
with myself because there's not that
much to say because I just came back
from locations and just yeah caught up
on things and there was I started a
discussion about size limiting the
identity multi hash which is also one of
the discussions topic that he will talk
about after the one of updates and for
the next week I really plan to get back
to my stuff in groovy some rust multi
formats refactoring mostly rust multi
hash because I was hitting limitations
when I tried twenty traded into or
looked into how Farrakhan is using an
IPL D therefore multi formats and hit
some limitations which needs some
redesign and it was interesting because
I also another country we did a
refactoring which was a similar thing so
I guess we both agree that something
needs to happen and yeah more on this
next week yes so next on my list is
Peter yeah - also short actually didn't
get too tall virtually no equality work
this week at all everything was taken
making sure that a really advanced way
to use Lotus works correctly and
finally getting some headway there and I
spent today keeping Eric angry so
success that's over here I actually
forgot to it to mind that I worked a lot
on FICO and stuff but might also be
interesting for others so I worked a lot
on getting the specification from
egghead into the official spec
repository and the interesting thing is
a lot of they take math code stuff so in
case you have such a document and want
to get into a spec thing we now have
everything wired up to use who go to do
such things and it's like it's not
trivial and yeah it's just yeah buddy I
might be useful for other like spec work
if you gonna do any heavy leave math
related spec stuff yeah I just wanted
that one so next on my list is mm Eric
he's a very fast at copying pasting on
typing I don't know very copy and paste
yeah so I have a big block of text a
because I had kind of a good a lot of
things came together so starting with
the smaller things and then sort of
working up with what that enabled go
Cochin now supports yeah Wow
go Cochin now supports unions so far it
is only the key union representation but
having one of them is enough to prove
out the core concepts and so this is
kind of a big milestone because unions
were the last recursive type kind that
we hadn't yet implemented in any way in
the IP LD schema related to it at all
and so now they're implemented in Cochin
and no abstract stones shattered which
is such a basic bar for sanity but it
means now that we've gotten through all
of the recursive type cuts this was one
of the last holes where an unknown
unknown could have been hiding to jump
out some of us are just connected and
that is no
whirring so like yes confidence
increases there is a pull request where
I talked about this and more length that
it's going to be linked to the texture
some of the fun things that are included
in this is the users choice of two
different internal memory layout
strategies in your generated code I've
called them in bed all versus interface
and this is a parameter which she would
set not in the schema itself because
it's completely going specific but you
had said in some of the adjunct config
for the code generation tool this is
still only available when you're calling
it as a library add and build to the
config CLI or anything for this room but
the possibility is there and these two
different options for internal memory
layout basically let you decide what
kind of performance traits that you want
in your code so if you use the embed
based strategy you get the fastest
runtime performance because you're
advertising allocations still if you use
the other strategy which is based on
interfaces and pointers a lot more that
you have smaller resident memory
consumption but it may have higher costs
to do allocations so those are two
hundred trade-offs that you will
sometimes encounter wanting to make in
the wild so and also to to review
something more common about how schemas
work but in the context of unions in
particular there's also two things being
cogent here you have the type of level
semantics for unions and then you have
the key representation behavior unions
and so the type of semantics they will
act like a map when you interrogate them
as I peeled the data model semantics and
the keys will always be the type names
and the values will be values when
you're doing the key union
representation
it will also act like a map in this case
the type representation and the
representation representation are about
as orthographies in the representation
will instead be the strings that users
specify other representations will be
more divergent okay so unions are done
the really cool thing about enabled is
goko gem can now generate code which
matches the ast of the schema schema
it's so posting this is kind of exciting
so so far I've had a bunch of
placeholder types which in go code
represent the type info and all the code
run has been based around these and so
this is just very very playful different
bootstrapping purposes in the near
future I'm going to be able to take this
code run output and use it for this
instead and what that will get us is
suddenly we'll be able to parse I peel
the documents of arbitrary schemas it
will turn very easily into this in
memory structure produced by the code
gem I will not have to write any new
codecs for any of this
they should just plug together and then
I'll be able to power the code down off
of this so that should scrape off a huge
amount of the work in order to make this
an actual like easily reusable CLI
fixing tool very exciting also it's just
like a huge tunnel there are some
titties in this I did change some of the
unions to be a little simpler for the
current schema schema some of those will
probably turn into the PRS back to the
schema schema some of them are too dues
for a little more work on the code
generator to support detailed features
but broadly speaking it works the output
size in terms of generated lines of code
is quite large it turns out to be more
than a megabyte I have made no attempt
to minimize or optimize this yet so
there's probably a lot of things for
movement some which will probably be a
priority in the teacher will see the
generated code is providing a lot of
features and so I'm not sure how low
this number is going to be able to go
but I hope lower than the current
baseline there should be a lot of room
for movement yeah so bad demo exists
very rough shot but like a huge
milestone
after this I'm going to abandon it
because it's under a documentation not
abandon it but like I'm thinking I'm
going to put down the coding keyboard
for a while and do a serious sprint of
documentation because we get feedback
both inside and from outside the team
that we're missing a couple of basic
pieces of documentation and our
discoverability is a bit of a challenge
and a lot of information about how it
all fits together is something that is
still not easily discoverable from our
written documentation and that needs to
improve so I'm probably going to spend a
bunch of time there instead of on code
near future Finn a very quick question
does the one megabyte of source get
reflected in compilation times or going
just it's this for breakfast I have no
idea I don't mean benchmark let me
perceptively do you get to wait like a C
program model or you know I can't
imagine it's that bad
there's no Lipsy it's not that bad no I
don't think compiling all of that takes
more than a second okay so uh did okay
ours in okay i review got very good
feedback you know we we already had in
there the docs were like important and
then we would be doing more but
basically got it like iterated that it's
even more important than that so like
actually drop a bunch of other things
and make these teeth erodes so and not
just sort of docks the way that we may
have been think you had them before but
like real like tutorial work real
content work potentially even blog posts
or videos or like whatever we can do to
try and fill this knowledge gap between
where did
uppers are and where they kind of need
to be to thinking decentralized data
structures and so working on that got
the website sort of outline up on Friday
and like a beginning doc so there's a
Doc's repo now that repo works as if you
run view press in there then you get a
view press site eventually that'll be
automated and a real website and it will
replace the current that's the only
website so we'll have sort of all of our
resources about the project and how to
learn everything kind of in one place
through one path I'd like to even move
the schema documentation that we have
into there because the schema
documentation is very like user focused
it's not really a spec documentation
anymore
and the specs repo will you know still
have everything that isn't that separate
it up what is the next thing uh yeah
Doc's okay and then and in my time that
is left over after managing and doing
everything else and and all of that I
needed to do something that was not
Merkel treats from it so um I've been
diving more into ESM built some nice
tooling around it starting to realize
that the world the BSN is different
enough but you don't actually want some
of the stuff that we've been using
started to build that some of that
tooling had some really good
conversations with people who are like
maintaining popular compilers you know
at pika snowpack stuff I talked to Fred
talked to Mel's borns a little bit who
does like the the no Deus I'm stuff all
the native stuff and got the tooling to
a point where it's actually kind of nice
and I can kind of see how to write
agnostic modules now like modules that
don't require a compiler and just work
in the browser ended no it's like that's
like a real thing that I can write now
but I can't test it and that's kind of
important like my workflow kind of
requires testing and coverage so sort of
working on how to test them and that has
very interesting it has really made me
realize how nice the new module system
is compared to the old one if you're
building any kind of tooling or you have
to create any kind of platform around
something being syntax having imports
map to a file directly rather than a
complicated and potentially mutable
resolution algorithm it's like a big
change and it's so nice so yeah I
started working on the test thing and I
realized like I could probably throw
Dino in there and we could have our
stuff work on Dino pretty easily
actually and so I talked to Ryan Dahl
and figured out kind of where things
would need to go and what the direction
of the project is to make sure that it's
like will align and then went well so
yeah it's it's all looking good this is
like a nights and weekends thing for the
most part though but it is it's looking
very nice the world in the future is
going to look a lot better than the
world in the past as far as JavaScript
goes it's gonna get way way simpler I
think the last people to recognize it
are probably going to be people with my
background like node people because if
you're right if you just write node and
you don't deal with the browser you
already don't deal with compilers you
don't deal with these big tool chains
but the difference when you do have to
have something run in the browser and
the tool chain you need to present
around it it's a world of difference if
you can only deal with the SM and you
can have these like agnostic modules a
lot of the crap that we've had to deal
with like extricate ourselves from like
buffer and like you know dealing with
all of these like dependencies that then
pull in all these polyfills like having
a little bit of a reach oh that's
actually gonna be kind of nice for this
new system so anyway let's remember that
who's next
Chris yeah hey guys yeah so last week
was mainly working with the rust falling
compy generate and good news is kind of
up to date with the latest and so do a
lot of cleanup and whatnot and a lot of
times actually spent just getting the
AWS to build to work there was just a
number of issues with it one
kind of an interesting data because you
heard about this but there's this part
of the rust file coin project uses
OpenCL and apparently it's friendly
using this language called futhark which
i've never heard about before but it's
supposedly it's better than writing
OpenCL directly and so there is this
compiler called Gen foo which will take
this futhark language and generate C
code and that gets linked into the rust
file coin library and it turns out that
that generates C code didn't compile
with this ancient version of Linux
that's needed to build the a Tobias land
of custom runtimes so if you're doing
rust and lambda you have to conform to
their linux image and it's like I don't
know sento s6 so it's like really old
with old versions of compilers all
Spencer so computers are so bad yeah
it's it was no those computers this is
the cloud yeah so I you know went down
many kind of wrong dead ends in this
process but actually I mean the good
news is is I think there's a
reproducible bill path now for it so
that's good and then once the bug fixes
or the mike Mayock its troubled down to
how they go into Gen foo which goes into
Neptune Triton which means an update to
a smile coin and then into the file pete
generate things so you know a couple of
weeks maybe at all the dependencies to
be updated and will be clean but that
was the adventure and then young good
news is completed the first Dumbo drop
in port of 18 terabytes of data so
that's cool I don't have to verify it so
actually right now I'm working on but
quick verify the team that will take the
original files and just make sure I can
get 100% compatibility extract amount of
car files so that's not doing right now
too
are you are in a place where you can
actually run like given data that you
can get a copy out yeah yeah it's so the
repo has a command-line utility and it
will generate compete for you and I mean
it uses a memory store so you can only
do follows a certain size otherwise
they'll just run out memory but yeah
that's there and then also trapped in a
in abuse lambda so you just like file
off like thousands of things in parallel
just does it hey I'm more asking like I
shouldn't have about compy I want to
make sure that if you're on your stuff
on the same that we already have it
we're testing with right now
that's where all your upgrades you're
actually going to arrive at the same
thing so we have like one of the small
files that we use
I'll get the data from from from the
other guys which piece or does exactly
they use for that so we can vary you
know you not sit and see if we're gonna
get there again with the small cat well
this you have a comp II for small car
files one make sure that you see now
you're produced know that the car file
is assembled the same way with your
stuff oh I see okay yeah sure I mean if
you can give the give me the source
files in the output car file then I can
either that's my to-do list to check
make sure all those right there thank
you there you might run into some weird
ordering issues it's it's it's hard with
this tool chain to produce the same car
file twice because the way that it
allocates putting stuff into the car
file from dynamo or from like the kind
of server stable but like if you just
want to check if compy hasn't changed
that's actually really easy we could we
could literally like now that this new
company is that we can literally go
through the table for compy and just
pick a few out and and run them and go
like oh hey it looks the same because we
have like worried about that in the past
so yeah I
the reason thought that your source or
the ink is also stable if it isn't then
just forget what I said if I'd like to
see if as well yeah I mean that's how
much I won't be invest in this tool but
that's something that like to make
reproduce for at least yeah at least one
of them is right now because it has been
arbitrary right now and I think you know
yeah we can make it perfect we can make
it better but yeah so we don't want to
rely on a dynamo Index which means that
we're just we can we do the allocation
to create the car files you just iterate
over the dynamo primary key index which
is not sorted in a reliable way
like it is consistent if you don't
change it but as you change the dynamo
table that ordering will just move
around on you so it's really hard to
like guarantee you're gonna get the same
files in the same order if you told it
to go and get them one thing you could
probably do wait a second maybe it would
work actually I think you could probably
in stage two you actually passed that
lambda the list of files on and I think
it does them I think it does them in
order doesn't it yeah I think so
I think it does them in order it night
mmm it might paralyze the reads from the
lock bucket though and so those might
not come in and order so I'm not yeah
I'm not a hundred percent sure that we
can like those those are not necessarily
deterministic and and it's something
must a totally just something that I
don't know easy to check so no - you
know but actually if you do have you
know so one of the challenges with the
russophile P January is that or compy
generate was that there was no testing
at all and so it's like hard to know for
there's actually working so I did a unit
test so I could actually future changes
come in we can be sure that it's doing
right but if you have a set of files and
Comm it actually has data files that are
being used for test cases for car files
or compy let me know and I'll add them
into my test suite and it it's better
nothing I can and I will
exile I think it's worthwhile looking to
find a way to see if you can make it
deterministic it may require some bigger
changes but I think that'd be good if we
can make it that way
right now my smoke test basically checks
for two combinations of car file that
can get produced now had like three
input files but it basically produces
one or two combinations right now
I'm just a quick note on the futhark
stuff I think it would probably move in
this week I think into lustful proofs so
I should trigger up quite quick because
there won't be enough glassful proofs
released this week and I think this
should be part of it if I recall
correctly from a meeting earlier today
but so it should be pretty soon at least
cool else I guess we through so now we
come to the we come to the Aegean
islands yeah so my my favorite item and
so I've opened an issue about multi hash
and the identity hash and I thought it's
like one of those issues I just opened
no one replies I make a decision so just
like like my main point is that I think
the main disagreement is at least for me
is between me and Michael isn't it there
should be some size limits like if I
don't disagree that there should be size
limits but there should not be a size
lemon in the spec so as limit can be
implemented by anybody who takes an
implementation even based on whatever
constraint but someone has to write it
somewhere where people read it I mean
like no no I I'm perfectly happy taking
whatever the current recommendation is
for a size limit as a recommendation and
putting it in the spec as a
recommendation that's fine I don't think
that it should be in as like a hard
limit that we expect every
implementation to take like it would be
an hour of CV should know I like even
less than that like even less than that
like a like a less than that like a it
is probably a good idea to keep these
below this thing like that's what it
should say I mean that's more than we do
for block limits by the way like block
limits like don't have a documented size
limit like there is
we have told people to keep it to one
megabyte and so they did there is a size
limit in bit swap that is 2 megawatts
but but you know most of the ecosystem
safety is one megawatt no but I think
for these like I really think for like
it should be assured because we keep
mixing this with without any cash this
has to do with a length of a CI D
because you can have Blake - Blake 3 the
Carrick stuff they all can output
gigabytes of data as a hash and that's
and you can request that so I guess what
we should do instead is we should say
that number one you always have to look
at the length of your CI D before you
like read the rest because you have to
look at the language AE and every
implementation must support at least and
I guess we need to throw there the fact
also it needs to support that is 64
bytes of CID payload
mm-hm and that's where we leave it
because otherwise you basically have to
say that you cannot use like you cannot
use you know four kilobyte shake 256
yeah I mean I would be fine having
assured in there that said you should
support see IDs of a leaf length X if
we're talking about CID limit recommend
a limit specifically on identity multi
hash I think that it should not even be
in the should category it should just be
you know this is what we're saying yeah
but right but for just for workers
implementation point where they base
need to allocate a buffer ahead of time
it doesn't matter whether it's a whether
it's a hash or or an identity it is just
a see ad with the payload that's it yes
but I think like yeah but but again it's
like I don't like if you say in your
implementation you only support let's
say plague 3 up to no 1k or something
let's totally find it no one would hear
like yeah whatever
and therefore I I'd like to say so
basically so
so more or less my point is you write a
new rust ma TL sorry a new mod has
documentation any language you are the
author and you make a decision how big
do I make the identification then I
think there should be an answer
somewhere that you don't make some
random number because then you are not
interoperable with other implementations
so I guess that any multi hashes are
gonna get you into trouble like like
that's just that's just the fact like I
don't know like I think when you when
you do randomly large identity multi
hashes you can't really be surprised
when they break or like it might shift
differently we have we in this issue in
this case of basically having an
identity having the case of what we call
in lines yeah do you think with with
plenty of data and we have the cases so
I care of only about the case which says
if my hair is longer than my original
data why should i hedge the date not
completely data I think that's the use
case I want to have for my rust multi
hash identification fermentation so I
without the use case of I put random
data in my CD for the reason I just
don't I think the better yeah I would I
would advise to just hash the data
anyway to just eat the extra space like
I don't think that a you're
multinational imitation or see any
implementation should be like
automatically doing identity multi
hashes under a particular size because
like no they're just gonna it's not
immediately but you have a way to say
identity hash and I think but if you
have a way to say identity how she would
just pass it the hatch but you just
passed the binary to stick in there it's
like any other multi hash right like
like a multi hash is just like a bunch
of binary for the hash yes
table is most tensors have limited I
agree with like play three for example
you don't but
like they usually like the current
suspects currently so even if you for
example yeah like you did use Blake to
today not only use Blake to slash 256 or
something yeah Peter brought this up
like several weeks ago but like we
should in the multinational impatiens
when you have a hashing function and you
know that it should never be over a
particular size you should put that size
limit in there just to protect yourself
and if you want it that would be where
you would implement like a default limit
on the size of that in any multi hash
and yeah I think that it's reasonable to
set whatever you think is fine like I
mean I can go with Stephens
recommendation from the issue I can go
with anything else I mean no matter what
you do you're gonna make somebody mad
and you're gonna crowd out some use case
but like is that it might be more
important to have the limit than to
crowd out that use case and if it's more
important to have the limit than the
crowd of the use case then take it but
that's just gonna that decision is going
to differ by implementation I so I don't
agree didn't like I so if like let's say
let's say it is very it is very clear
that somebody in that threat has an
implementation and they have a very
different need than literally everybody
else so like it is their implementations
decision to make this limit much larger
than anybody else would think it's
reasonable and I'm fine with that like
they can they can do that like they
didn't bring us back
yeah but they could even do if yeah but
they I consider them like a power user
so if they if they so they even can
because like if it's a should they're
totally fine to do it but I for me as a
library implementer of multi hedge if
there's a should I just do that
everything is fine and it works which go
it works with rust is worse with
JavaScript do you realize that there is
no way that you can do a complete multi
cache implementation at this point like
it just can't like we just we just added
the the Falcone pls stuff just can't
implement it's like what are you going
to pull that there are proofs in like I
don't know
is that I think the identity hash is
useful for the case of my data is
shorter than the hashed version of it I
think that's a useful use case and if I
hold it for this miss case and for all
the DOS FTP one of two different things
like one is in your implementation you
need to allocate a buffer ahead of the
time and the other thing is you not like
how I didn't much catches you so which
which problem are resolving right now oh
that's the same time no I I want to
solve
well one implies the other because they
I care about so I I don't like the way
that I did it here so how much some
people use period we all agree there is
[Laughter]
okay yeah I I care about the case like I
so for me the only valid case
for me the only case for identity multi
hash is the case where the data is
shorter than the hash I would use and
this makes it quite short and it makes
quite short I think we should put a
short limit whatever it is on the
identity hash if you want to do some
crazy stuff like putting future than it
just create your own codec and you're
fine mate just do it but so you're
asking for like an objective technical
criteria for what you've already stated
as an opinion which is like your opinion
is that the only valid use case for
multi hash than any multi happens when
it's smaller than the hash function so
like that is your opinion which you're
allowed like you can't have what they
want weird useful like this is what they
were introduced for I think yes that is
your opinion if that is your opinion
then make the limit whatever the largest
hashing function is that you currently
have if that's it
that's your opinion and like like to let
that opinion stretch true identity movie
but does it mean every other human
relation that has a reasonable guard on
it and moreover like if tomorrow
somebody writes something like super
interesting that uses 16 kilobyte
identity happen and you really want to
support them
the very well might be somebody somebody
out there somebody out there is now
watching watching watching this YouTube
stream and contact ah I know what I'm
going to do 16 K caches for and the
point is that if you don't have that
they will be able to build their thing
prove it it actually might end up being
useful and then for you to be able to
support it because you go like okay this
kind of makes sense then all you have to
do is switch a bit in your in your
application in your library and the
world will not break
whereas what you're proposing right now
is we gave something out there that is
unlimited for good or bad reasons it
doesn't matter and then we're saying
like AHA this stuff that we said that
you can build like you know the
permanent weapon it or whatever
including encryption by the way in this
case we're taking this away from you
that's not cool to be perfectly honest
like I have reservations and concerns
with identity multi hash in searcy ideas
. .
like they they break the conceptual
representation of the key and like there
are libraries right now including the
javascript lock api that's flat-out
won't decode it like that you can't pass
it off to a storage layer because it's
not a storage key and you can't get the
block to decode it because it doesn't
come with data associated with it
because it's only a key like we don't
support like key only storage and key
only blocks right now like that's not a
concept and it would really start to
break down the model so like like you're
worried about like literally you know
what about this limit for identity multi
hash and causing an incompatibility like
what I'm saying is that identity multi
hash right now already
fully breaks things at any size and is
not universally supported than any size
so like okay whatever you want
okay so spacing is so special the
solution just don't implement I didn't
yes well I mean like in your
multinational imitation you kind of have
to have it there and like like in in
blocks if you have a if you have a
property that is a CID we can represent
the CID CID comes out is to CID instance
and hasn't any multi hash in it it's
just that like if you want to decode
that into real block data you're gonna
run into a problem now you're gonna have
a problem when you traverse that as the
CID you're not gonna have a problem
representing the CID and so like the
break that you're talking about doing
it's like a little bit before that so
it's slightly different but there's so
many issues involved in this already
that it's just like this is not like the
top of much it's do things to worry
about because you're like already often
in crazy hack land if you're doing
actually never understood why is it so
hard to support them on the store on the
on the blog storage layer because all we
doing go is like we say oh you want a
block with this key here's your data
without doing a lookup anyway so because
because a block storage return blocking
with your data they don't just return
data so like you could return the data
but then like how do I represent like
here's the thing a block is a
representational pair of key and binary
data and so when you have it when you
have a key only and there's no binary
data that just derived from the key that
it actually is the key it breaks the
representation so like this when I went
to so when I would I have so when I hand
the key up to a block store it tries to
look up the key in storage and it
doesn't have it because there it is not
actually a key it is also the value
alright and abstraction interfacing boy
PFS that sits on top of every block
store it doesn't seem on the go and ask
the block so it just says oh that's what
you want there it is and it just creates
it on the fly yes it weights a memory
but so what that works on a product
right like that's why this job
but but but yeah but like when you have
these conceptual layers of the library
layer and ecosystem that's the
compatibility layer that you're worried
about you're basically asking every
block store to also implement this thing
and your block abstraction to think
about this thing and that's like not it
doesn't it doesn't work like there are
things that you can't do that way like
there is a there's a reason to have a
logical separation between key and value
and to not break that representational
IRA that I don't think that it's
reasonable to expect mutations attack
again is basically the answer in in gold
and was like every store actually
understands that and that I phantom data
back yeah I think I can see why you
would say you don't want to spread this
here yeah yeah I mean like like things
will work in ipfs that may not work in
all implementations that ever closing
you're actually right and that doesn't
mean that either is breaking this back
it just means that like they implemented
handling better yeah so we could
actually very well say and I would be
comfortable that to say that you know in
the multi codec table we have a bunch of
things that are and like required for
you to be you know to you have to be
that implemented to write and
identification might not be among this
you know minimal set on this file
yeah yeah I mean I think we already have
some of these in in the codec table but
I think that it is worth calling out
that I didn't able to hatch isn't an
issue specifically for C IDs and not for
multi hash multi hash on its own is fine
without any multi hashes it's really see
IDs where this becomes very problematic
because you you're not just an address
anymore you are a codec associated with
an address and so there there needs to
be a way to translate this keys value
into something and that becomes really
complicated okay so I think okay
I think I'm convinced that identity hash
is not a good idea I will just remove
one of our supplementation but I still
think and I'm also happy do not having a
shirt but I think it makes sense to put
some like some note about some size that
if someone implements and just want to
have some number you can just use this
number I think this would make sense in
the wherever it lives we can put that
warning right next to a warning that
says you probably shouldn't use this at
all happy with a line that said RFC
caps-lock may implementers may want to
enforce a limit of around sixty nine
bites no way that's a weird over seventy
one bites and yeah that's about as much
as I care okay you feel if you're going
to go that far and setting up a limit on
this don't make it four identical
hitches only because it's kind of dumb
just limit your general CIT length so
that you can have a generic occasion
story that for example you don't support
it now the math the math for that gets a
little complicated because we we have
different sizes for different bar yes
oh yeah don't I know that why do you
think basics like this
but but the point is that we can like a
parent cannot be more than nine bites
this is something else we define
everywhere so we're going to say nine
bites here 9 bytes here Plus 512 bits
and that's your maximum you could very
well say that is there is this thing
that's coming up in the roast
implementation like do we care real hard
and strong so we do something on the
road so why why ever write up in study
this so the reason is in your ass you
could write and like you could have an
implementation which is for all the
a location fence is arrogance as well is
you could ride one which doesn't do any
heap on occasions if there's a limit a
low limit and that's the point kind of
made such an information then possible
and if you then you need basically weird
special cases for in this case it's a
totally different data structure really
need simple locations and whatever and
this is why I brought it up but I agree
with Peter actually that yeah as we have
have just like played three which can be
whatever size it is and we perhaps
should put a may on the multi hash and
say I don't know like what could curly
hashes like I think 1k is probably good
enough for now
and I maybe we might revisit it in ten
years where we then say 2 KS or whatever
but I normally get flashes like caches
normally you don't need like I think
like I think in the wild I've never seen
an airship is bigger than 512 axing but
so if we yeah like we're pretty wantem
just don't don't make predictions I'm
not talking about post quantum things
what what do you what are you gonna do
when that happens bigger figure you're
gonna fail fail how to like like you're
not even going to try to dig like fail
it which spot exactly when you try to
read it like get bites anyone so so
basically in rust we have like a like a
multi hedge object C and E bytes so can
either do you drive it from by its or
from other stuff but let's say you get
it from buy it so get some white thing
and put it into and what to say
oh let this pass as a multi hash and if
it's then too big it will just say well
too long which is a digest of whatever
too
so you can't fall back to the other
method that does have the heap
allocations when it's over pretty better
size you actually know I guess yeah I
mean you could you could but I wouldn't
implement it because I like you
theoretically need it but who needs it
so like of course it of course you could
do like parts of the lens in the oh I
use this other invitation because like
currently we even do this so currently
we even have some optimization tell me
which is super Aki whatever but you
could only do it but the question is
should it be implemented because
actually no one needs it like you don't
need a I don't 16 megabytes like three
hash I just say Folker I would just if
make open Edition I would I would make a
limit much closer to the actual things
that people are doing like 512 and then
wait for somebody a lot above it and
then when somebody logs a blog and we
see what their use cases do it because
like the problem that I have with coming
up with this language and coming up with
a limit and putting in the spec is that
like the place where we've seen a limit
get actually implemented and enforced
it's much smaller than chest right like
ipfs is now limiting this so that they
can use see ideas and subdomains and so
that comes with like a much smaller set
than we're talking about right now like
you need to keep these pretty small so
yeah I just don't okay should be then
then perhaps like a totally different
idea and do a similar thing as we do for
I Cody that we add a section for
implementers of of multi hash saying
that for example like it is good
practice or like many or some of
meditation pose a limit on the on the
total size of the hash to make
implementation easier or faster or more
convenient and it's for example like
it's likely the biggest has security
support it's the limit for maximum limit
for all of those and it's felt like it
could practice whatever we call it and
so just rather rather than recommend
what people should do we should just
document what different implementations
are doing so it's implementations with
implement limits we just documental
they did and why they did it and people
can decide that that's what they want to
do and I still don't think that we
should at this point even recommend
because I have a good justification for
what that when it would be it's like I
mean it's like similar to the to the to
the document we're for ideally it's more
like a hey this is what other yeah
document saying hey this is what other
implement that's a New England you might
want to go to say it looks like the I
think early it's it's a pretty high bar
to implement the marquee forma so I
thought these stuff if it's if you would
start from scratch and you don't have
all this context it's super hard to
actually yeah know where to get started
to make many mistakes and then fan out
Oh ash oh I could have used the limit
but you never had the idea because in
America so I think yeah some talk human
okay so I'm fine with having it like not
in the spec but just like some
guidelines or whatever you call it yeah
okay
and based on these numbers that they
just put in the chat we can just go with
that and say like you have to support
this to be you know to be a very
implemented and from there on whatever
yeah okay so it's just to bring this to
an end it's like I've also I have a post
on this identity hash issue basically
what we discussed that we don't put a
hard limit but say we put out some
additional documentation about like what
nations are doing in this way we
document that we can document the IP fs1
to there'd be a good place documented
and linked to the right things oh
because also like some like document if
for my it's like why they have a limit
to basically for a subdomain so it makes
sense if you have sort of a sub domains
and okay yeah use a shorter head okay
yes on the issue tomorrow okay okay um
so yeah Peter I think that like I agree
that we should change this BL to have a
union in that one field but you you
wanted to get kind of some alignment I
think it on some of the earlier stuff so
let's think
yeah yeah we ran out of time though so
you know whoever wants to jump off the
spine basically I like I'm going to
trouble with the entire concept of you
have chunks that are weird sizes don't
do that because like in my special case
what I actually have is I have a file
that is already written in such a way
that groups of chunks on the very low
and are up to 64 kilobytes together so
there might be one track there might be
several and then these three you can
have this I shouldn't roads to bytes or
three bytes you can have these pieces
put in between each 64 up to 64 K chunk
and then what you end up with in a
streaming fashion by the way you can end
up with the original butter and the
deflated data with a zero deflate
indexing plan so then I can use this sub
stream as a portion of a gzip as a
portion of a zip as a portion of a get
back file so I need the ability to
represent these two streams I can't just
not do that and my understanding so far
how you would do this with flexible
layout was like you need to have like a
massive support box around every two
bytes which can't be oh no no no
so first of all every so every link two
bytes can be a rob lock so those could
all be raw blocks that are linked in
they don't have to be encapsulated in
stibor like the the raw link is a valid
byte static now if you want to inline
each of those into the data structure
you just use a Union so that you're
using
Seaborg bytes in each place rather than
the link out to a row block right
Oh like actual civil right so it will be
even shorter yeah and and then the
identity so it literally will you're
like the next thing is right yep
but yep but can I have this in see what
can actually have like linked by its
link bytes in it and you have that in
the same array yeah yeah you can you can
mix types in an array in seaboard just
fine
and you can mix types in I peeled the
schema as long as you set up the value
as a union so what we need to do is we
need to update the FBL because right now
it says that has to be a link back to
the rutile structure but we could change
it so that it was a union a link you
like a kind of Union for linking and
then yeah it could be inline bytes or
not okay and then my my other thing is
that we we keep talking about schemas as
if no matter what you do whenever you
like have a stream in it to give us
essentially give a schema with it's
almost like it's no XML here you know
that without a DTD or you're screwed and
like my use case is that it needs to
work the way that people works right now
in terms of not structures but in terms
of how that could be it's essentially
it's a test right
and no matter how you stick these things
together it will give you a stream back
out there is no like clear story how do
I get from the FPL to an actual
something that a web Gateway will
eventually understand like this doesn't
even seem to on the roadmap and that's
what's confusing sorry so an SPL to Web
Gateway oh so you mean like to the
actual file structure right exactly yeah
like yeah I don't care I don't care
about files and thumbs up like detected
its names I just care about staged like
how do I represent this thing yeah yeah
so the SPL is the data stream the
metadata is all UNIX and UNIX is about
the metadata for the bytes part of a
file it will be an fel and an FBL should
be able to represent any layout that you
would ever want to
for scream binary data including like
like this thing where I kept like yeah
see idea or final awful 64 K and then I
have a two bites and I have another C
that's not yeah yes school no it's not
an escape so I I did cut it at one point
from the early versions of that spec had
that in there and I cut it because when
I was implementing I could not figure
out a good way to actually use that
feature because I was always getting
data as a stream and then if you wanted
to decide whether or not to inline bytes
or to hash them as a bra block you would
also have to be constructing the layout
at the same time
because then you that's the only way you
would know how much space you would have
before you might go over the max block
size and the more that I worked on that
the more I realized there like that dad
doesn't really work what you need to do
is run through the entire chunking take
all the lengths and the links and then
create the layout because you have way
better information to do the whole
layout at that point but if you had
something so small but it was like two
bites and they were just all over the
place
you you could just keep those in memory
that'd be fine
you wouldn't really care you just kind
of hold on to the to them so I can see
it also on on slack I brought up that
like actually four videos for most
compressed formats you want to support
seeking in you have a header or a footer
that you need to read before you can do
anything so why wouldn't you just inline
that data into the data structure yeah
so yeah this is all these are all use
cases that we should capture an FBL and
we should go and they can do this yeah
cool I just want to connect the
misconception that you cannot stream
chunk you can that's what they get
that's like that was the very first
incremented because yeah I read that is
two of your max blocks
you always get enough space in there to
figure out where your trinkets so you
can steam and drink at the same time no
no it wasn't that I couldn't stream in
truck at the same time that was working
what I couldn't figure out was um
constructing the the layout tree while
chunks were coming in because I didn't
know the length and I didn't know how
many trunks would be a part of it so
like what is my branching factor from
the root of the data structure how big
are the leaves in order to like balance
the layout I couldn't figure that out
like if I don't know the length and I
don't have any idea how many trunks I'm
going to get I can't figure out a good
like streaming algorithm to figure out
the layout so what I did was I just like
said okay here's all of my links at once
I know all of the chunks I can create
all the intermediary nodes through the
layout and that's not a huge amount of
space in memory it's just like a bunch
of hatches and then even a material
actually bolts 3co and what what ipfs
calls the balance back they both work in
streaming fashion you don't need to know
anything ahead of thing I mean you can
do it I just couldn't find a way to do
it efficient like you can always like it
was it was more like I just need I
wanted to max out the belief lengths and
be like I wanted to figure out what the
right balance was between like having
too much depth or intermediate nodes and
what the link could be and you could
always work out a better algorithm if
you knew the number of nodes right if
you knew the number oh right yeah
because that just keeps got yes the
linked list yeah yeah yeah you can do
yeah the first one I did was balanced so
yeah and doing Keele balanced is
difficult that's why I say the cause
balance is like if that's not it's not
balanced you just yeah yeah mine is
really balanced because I I
I stream the binary data out it's just
that I keep a list of all that it links
and then I I just offer the links and
then spit out the layout okay cool
all right anything else on the list of
things that we were going over another
word over time it's good I would
actually really like to drag us through
going over why and the connection to the
highest level visions for all of that
stuff we just discussed because I'm
imagining listening to this conversation
as somebody who wasn't fully in sync
with everyone in the conversation and I
think they're about the in IP OD our job
and one of our highest level visions
when we started looking at things and
revamping them a couple of years ago and
make all of our new generation of
libraries was we have noticed that after
people have been using all this stuff in
ipfs and dag PB and stuff that big maps
are a thing that people constantly want
it showed up as directories in dag PB
but we want big maps with arbitrary keys
and the other thing that showed up is we
want big bytes we called those files and
diabetes had a totally specialized
one-off thing that did this and both of
those are really important when we make
IP LD we want to make all of these
things general and codec agnostic and
we've stretched angles to encompass both
of those things big maps we added big
lists even though that didn't really
exist in dag PD and big ranges of bytes
we want to encompass all of these in
some kind of coherent strategy that
could talk about charting opaquely as
much as possible and so that's what all
of this stuff is about we have tried to
wrap up that concept of starting in
something that we've called advanced day
layouts or sometimes a TLS for short
because we came to the conclusion that
sharding often requires logic it might
need
code can be a little scary so a concept
of ADL's involves some sort of plug-in
structure through which one might supply
code and also gives us a way to expand
on things in the future without being
too prescriptive now as long as we get
some of the central interfaces around
this correct so we want interfaces for
maps and lists and bytes to be big this
FBL acronym that we've referred to a
couple of dozen times now oh no whoever
names the full thing but it stands for
flexible byte layout and flexible byte
layout is the name of the spec that
Michael made which is an advanced state
of layout specific way for a big bytes
problem it is just one of them we could
make more of them we think that this one
is a particularly reasonable thing and
we're going to try to make it as usable
as possible but it is also not like
blessed by the gods it will like be a
thing that we very much want to work
well but it is not magical so when you
asked us about how do we get things to
render on a gateway this is something I
want to talk through because we should
make sure that we have grounded hopes
understandings on this yeah so right now
when a file renders on the Gateway and
it's coming from dag PB with dag peepees
totally specialized understanding of big
bites and all of this jazz it's relying
on a lot of super specialized stuff that
was hard coding in dag baby this is
important to highlight because we are
not carrying forward half of those super
specialized things so now in the future
when we do the concept of big bytes via
an advanced data layout there's a
plug-in of code required hopefully it's
usually going to be very small but
there's like a thing there's a little
bit of glue code and we have determined
but it might be covered so it's
reasonable to warn that when you're
talking about some public service like a
gateway it is probably going to have a
white list of known plumbing systems
that
will allow you to use because it is
running code and letting people run
unknown code on your infrastructure on
your budget is like not a thing that you
like to do so one of the ways that
flexible byte layout might indeed be
fairly blessed is we'll probably know
what that is on the Gateway
infrastructure and we will probably
actually make a lake explicitly allow
this plug-in to run condition well but
this one will probably have such a
blessing well and one of the important
things about that right is that there's
a large number of potential layout
algorithms and there is a large number
of potential chunker's and those are
ever-expanding and supporting all of
them would be prohibitive I think the
goal of fbl is to allow you to implement
any chunker any layout that you would
care about in a common data structure so
that the read of it is the same no
matter how you decided to lay it out or
where he decided to put the bits or what
chunker that shouldn't be dependent on
that so we can shift more chunker's in
the future we can shift more layouts in
the future and nobody has to update
every single node on the planet to know
how to read this thing and you're the
Gateway already going to know how to
read it and to be fair this what we have
today with deck TV that could be no
matter how you arrange stuff no matter
how you inline things like it has
actually in line on the carracticus in
line came between with you know that
NCATS and runs of course it will render
the same thing no matter how you arrange
it and if FBL actually allows this then
problem solved and you know and i just
need to figure out how to how to
actually do FBO on the web so to speak
because that's still not that year but
yeah there is a little bit of gap
between FBO on the wire and well wire
and FBL right because the FBO
description is topologically applicable
to the data model tree structure and you
can choose any codec which is something
that was
possible with dead baby right because
all of the hacks were in the deck PD
codec so flexible byte way out can
actually work on seaboard
or I mean using it on JSON there's a
little funny because then you're gonna
get base64 but you could it just
absolutely plugs together the interfaces
do compose it would be funny but they
compose yeah did definitely don't want
to do any inline binary if you dollars
need to be likes it isn't this kind of
like a quirk of documentation that you
can use multiple different codecs but
you don't they you want to specifically
for it you know it would make a mix tree
also be sort of bizarre well technically
the codecs are max because a lot of them
are raw but not only that you would
probably want to like for example all
the stuff in rock right now is unique
success with one you might want to
create a universal two directory that
links to the data stuff without actually
actually everything in demo drop is dag
PB files with the a route that links
them all together that's tagged seaboard
alright but the thousands over that baby
yep yep yeah so if you want to link some
of these files into another structure
what do you do you have yours that's it
that's a UNIX FST to question right
because you're actually linking the file
not the binary and so at that level like
UNIX must be - we'll just need a union
there's there's been some crazy talk
about this though like because so much
of the UNIX of SB 1 code exists as dag
PB hacks and it doesn't really respect
the sort of like transition but like
what date TV isn't really a codec for
the way that we think about them now it
has a lot of like very application
specific stuff in it
there's been talk about just
reinterpreting dag TB so that what gets
spit out of the codec actually matches
the new you nation this v2 schema so
that they don't have to write does they
don't have to maintain two
implementations this was a this is an
idea that Stephen had and nobody's
really followed up on it but that was
like in the ether yeah anyway we'll put
this part of this British winner yes is
this one of them this one of the things
for multi codec because you will have a
seaboard box that links to PV boxes yeah
I think I'll have a directory in C where
the only University - directory that
links to old p1 files yeah I think how
to have like a heterogeneous mix
structures that have wild slurries of
UNIX FS would be one dag PB and UNIX of
SV - is a whole issue yeah yeah like I
get in there it seems to migrate hashes
and their repositories and look at some
of the issues discussed over there about
how doing this incrementally is actually
not a good idea and maybe consider
ourselves cautioned and make choices in
light of that information that's my
personal opinion you know I'm not
suggesting if we're kept winning both
ways like nobody would expect for a unix
if as we want to be able to include to
be - stuff like that that's great but
nobody is also going to record on
Boudreau
it is UNIX everyone forever I mean if
you need to be able to there there
really isn't that much data in it that
is dig maybe the majority of its raw
blocks right the majority of the data is
Rob blocks and like creating like
recreating the structures on top or
actually like relatively easy I mean we
need to have like a much larger longer
discussion that we should probably start
a thread about this about the best way
to do competitive
from v2 to v1 and if we want to create a
union like what would that Union look
like for instance I think that like the
inclination here is to rely on the codec
as the identifier and if that's the case
then we don't actually have a way to
represent that in schemas right now
schemas really assume that you are
basically codec agnostic
so that is either like a missing area or
it's just like we shouldn't use that we
should actually use something inside of
the universe p1 data structure to tell
us if it's a new one or not and then
create the Union on that okay yeah we're
way over sorry Folker we've still four
minutes left
[Music]